>> Scott Moss: Okay, and then there was
the final one, which was extra credit.
Which was basically, where's that one at?
Project resolver.
Yeah, is this one, so tasks.
So this one I said, yeah, try to find
a way to use a loader here if you can.
Did anybody find a way
to use a loader here?
>> Scott Moss: Okay, how did you do it?
>> Student: I did a query in another
loader that handled the relationship.
So I was actually taking the project
ID as the key for the loader and
looking at the tasks collection.
>> Scott Moss: Got it.
So you take a project ID, okay, cool.
So does anybody wanna see a solution for
this?
You?
Okay, all right.
There's a lot of ways you can do this one.
So basically what you would do, and that's
a good approach, and I'm probably gonna
take a similar approach to that.
>> Scott Moss: Let's call this
one
>> Scott Moss: Project or
taskByProject loader,
that's what we'll call it.
So this one is going to take in,
>> Scott Moss: An array of project ID's.
So we have some project ID's here.
>> Scott Moss: And
the difference with this is,
we're taking project ID's but
we're actually trying to return task.
So there's a relationship thing here.
So we need to do,
is we need to develop like a query for
Mongo that, okay, so
let me try to describe it this way.
So if we have an array of project ID's,
right?
And for
each one of these ID's there's going to be
an array of tasks.
>> Scott Moss: Right, so
if each one of these projects
had three task each,
that's gonna be four arrays
with three tasks in them.
Does that make sense?
So what we need to design
a query that will take
all of these ID's, and that query is gonna
return back from Mongo all the tasks.
But they won't be grouped by the array or
the project that they are associated with.
So that's where the complexity gets there.
So that's still small difference because
now we're dealing with collections
of things, they're not just values.
So there's something to think about there.
It makes it hard to plan stuff like that.
Okay, so now we have that out of the way
what we can do is we can just return
a query here for a task.
What is that?
[LAUGH] Task.find.
And basically we wanna find all
the task that have a project
that's in this array of project ID's.
>> Scott Moss: So
we'll get that and
then this is gonna give us
all these tasks here.
>> Scott Moss: So
now that we have all those tasks we
can just group them by the project.
So tasksBy,
>> Scott Moss: Project.
And that's just going to
be we're going to use key
by.
>> Scott Moss: Let me get rid of
this over here.
>> Scott Moss: And
we're just gonna key by the task
by the project property.
There we go.
My god.
>> Scott Moss: So
now we got them grouped,
we've got the objects.
And now what we can do is we
can return on the project
Id's.
>> Scott Moss: .map
over those because if we have four
project ID's and we have, again,
four tasks on each one of those projects,
that's four times four.
So that's what it looks like flat, but
we've gotta form it back
to where it's an array.
So what we need to do now is we'll
map over it and then we'll say,
we'll get this project ID here, and
then it's basically the same thing.
So we'll just be like
tasksByProject with the project ID.
>> Scott Moss: Does that make sense?
All right, so now you got that you can
just come out here create taskByProject or
whatever you wanna call it.
And now you have access to that loader
inside of project.resolver,
which would be loaders.taskByProject.load
>> Scott Moss: There you go.
And
that's basically the only
way how you can do this.
Is that how you did it?
>> Student: Pretty
much, yeah.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah.
So there's another way you
can do it where you can have,
we already have a project loader and
a task loader, we can have them talk to
each other and prime each other with data.
But then when it comes time to loading
it over here your keys are off.
So it can get pretty complicated.
And then you might think of doing
a key that's an object that's a key.
Again, it can get really complicated.
The thing about DataLoader is that it
only works when your data is simple.
when data gets complicated this
also gets very complicated and
you could be banging
your head on the wall.
Any other questions on this?
>> Scott Moss: Nope.
Everyone good with DataLoader?
Know when to use it?
Know how to use it?
So use it to batch and
cache database calls.
Use it to batch and
cache calls to other API's.
>> Scott Moss: There are some
other exceptions around some of that but
mostly that is true.
I would say DataLoader
is pretty well used.
You can do things like hook it up to
Redis to where it persists it in Redis.
So it would be your Redis layer and
then also fall back to M memory.
So there's a lot of things there.
If you have data that's universally used
for all your users you can cache that.
Or if you come up with some
really good cache keys,
that stuff gets really complicated.
So yeah, that's DataLoader.
Alright, so
what we're, any other questions in
general about caching in GraphQL?
Because all we did is
talk about DataLoader.
But there's other things.
I was gonna save those for the end,
but if people have questions now,
I'm willing to talk about them.
>> Scott Moss: Nope?
Alright.
Caching is harder than GraphQL,
[LAUGH] really hard.
There's no git request.